Hey folks. Today's episode was
sponsored by Datadog it's. A
cloud scale monitoring and analytics
platform. Datadog was built to
bring clarity to complex dynamic
applications in the cloud, on
premises in containers or wherever
they run with beautiful dashboards,
distributed, tracing, and seamless integrations
with more than 200 technologies,
including Azure and Docker and
PagerDuty Datadog provides deep end
to end visibility into the
health and performance of modern
apps. Visualize key metrics, set
alerts to identify anomalies and
collaborate with your team to
troubleshoot and fix issues fast.
I'd like you to try
it yourself by starting a
free 14 day trial today,
listeners of this podcast will
also get a free Datadog
t-shirt get started at bitly.com/data
dog shirt. That's bitly.com/datadog shirt.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hanselminutes today. I'm talking with
April Wensel. He's a founder
of compassionate coding, and you
can check her out at
April Wensel, w E N
S E l.com. Thanks for
chatting with me. Hello. Hi,
happy to be here. I'm
looking at your website. I've
seen you online and you
give lots of talks about
this concept of, of compassionate
coding. And I, I, when
I was talking to you
earlier, I, I said, well,
is this like soft skills
or squishy sales skills? And
you checked me and, and
I appreciated the check. Why,
why is that a wrong
word to use? Yeah. So
when we use terms like
soft or squishy, that doesn't
sound like something that people
would care about, right? I
mean, especially because the connotations
with soft, our weakness, we
say things like he's gone
soft and it's also associated,
I think, to a certain
extent with women. And to
be honest, not that there's
anything wrong with being associated
with women, but soft quote,
soft skills are important for
everyone to develop, not just
women. And so I think
that this association is, is
harmful because it keeps people
from giving these skills, the
importance that, that they really
should have. And on top
of that, I mean, what
we're talking about here are
a complex kind of psychological
phenomenon that really aren't really
soft, even in that, you
know, area they're very complicated,
there's science behind it. So
in that sense too, there
are definitely hard in terms
of difficulty and complexity as
well. Yeah. You've also talked
a lot online about the
idea of emotional intelligence and
I've always heard, you know,
IQ and E Q and
it seems like we, we
really promote this idea that
people should be smart and
IQ is so important, but
I've never taken a class
on EPQ or learning about
emotional intimacy. Yeah. Which is,
I feel like that's the
case for most people, we
are starting to see some
social, emotional learning happening in,
in school curriculum. But I
think right now, only out
in California and places like
that, and not, not kind
of in the mainstream, but,
but empathy, you know, that's
one, one aspect of emotional
intelligence. Like it's definitely a
skill that can be learned.
It's not just something you're
either born with or not
born with. You know, That's
very interesting. Why is it
that we seem to think
that people are born smart
or not smart, or they're
born with an emotional, you
know, core emotional intelligence. It
seems like everything can be
learned and we should be
promoting that. Yeah, definitely. I'm
a big fan of Carol
Dweck work on growth mindset,
which is this idea just
like you said, that whatever
skill it is that we
want to develop, it doesn't
matter where we're starting from.
We can get better. We
may not, you know, there
may be an eventual limit
that we hit or, you
know, it may take us
longer than other people, but
all of us are capable
of growing whatever skills we
decide to. Yeah. That's interesting
that you bring up the
growth growth mindset, because I'm
thinking about my two kids
while I just made an
assertion that they're not learning
about emotional intelligence. In fact,
the growth mindset has been
a part of the curriculum
at their school. So that's
cool that you brought up
Carol Dweck. Yeah. Yeah. I'm
a big fan of hers
and her work. And, you
know, cause I think there's
this idea in tech, especially
that, you know, you're either
born to be a coder
or, or not, you know,
and that either I think
Jeff Atwood, hadn't this blog
post where you said that
the computers chose him or
something like that. And it's
like, you know, for some
people that's the case, that's
their origin story. You know,
that's, that's how they feel.
That's how they frame it.
But that's not the case
for everyone. Some people, you
know, were interested in what
they could build, interested in
solving a specific problem. And
so they learn to code,
or we have a lot
of people coming to coding
now later in life, you
know, taking bootcamps or being
self-taught or whatever. And those
people are, you know, I
believe that we should welcome
them just as much as
we would welcome anybody who
thinks that they were born,
you know, to be a
coder. Yeah. That's a really,
I really liked the way
you phrased that this idea
of the programmers origin story
really resonates with me because
you know, there are tropes
in the superhero origin story.
As somebody gets bit by
a radioactive spider or they'd
fall into a VAT of
whatever. And there's the origin
story of, I was given
an Apple two at age
12, but why is that
any more interesting or more
valuable than I was a
teacher for 20 years? And
I decided I want to
get into tech and I
quit my job. And at
45 decided to become a
programmer. That's a pretty cool
origin story too, isn't it?
Yeah. It really is. You
did an interview with a
building programmers and I liked
that idea that the programmers
are built. They're not, they're
not, they're not born. Yeah.
I think that's really, that's
really true. So when, when
we talk about these terms
and, and now I'm not
going to use terms like
soft and squishy, what should
I say? Cause I want
to make a compassionate environment.
I want everyone to feel
that they are they're valued,
but you know, they say
in programming, naming is hard,
right? So here we are
looking to name stuff. Yeah.
The, the, the interesting thing
about that is one of
the reasons the naming is
hard is that naming actually
requires a great deal of
empathy because naming, and that
includes the naming variables because
the idea is you're not
naming them for the machine.
The machine doesn't care what
you call the variables and
there's no right or wrong.
There's no perfect name in
terms of, you know, actual
correctness naming is really about
who it's for and who
it's going to help. So
in the case of variables,
you're really naming based on,
who's going to be reading
the code, including yourself, your
future self, and also any
of your collaborators. And so
in this case for skills,
I mean, one thing is
just to refer to them
more specifically, like, are you
talking about communication skills or
are you talking about self-awareness
introspection just be more specific
instead of kind of lumping
them together. Another option is,
you know, we talked about
emotional intelligence, emotional intelligence skills
would also be good. Some
people use something like professional
skills, but again, that's kind
of vague and it's hard
for people to know exactly
what that means. I gave
a talk and I talked
about, well, it's a talk
that I do frequently. And
I, I refer to them
as catalytic skills. It's a
term I borrowed from Daniel
Goldman, who is pretty big
in the emotional intelligence world.
And this idea of catalytic
skills is that they help
you catalyze your other skills.
So for example, they may
help you learn new technical
skills. They may help you
decide which technical skills to
use, you know, which coding,
which coding framework to use
or what, not that that
requires certain amount of problem
solving ability. That's not actually
directly a coding skill. It's
more sort of a meta
skill, so to speak. So
there's just a whole range
of things you could call
them other than soft skills.
And I think it depends
on your audience. Really. Yeah.
I think my initial reaction
is that it might be
hard to sell a more
complicated word, but what the
great thing about catalytic or
catalyst is is that it
is, it's more precise. It
says exactly like this is
a thing that precipitates a
thing and it, it, it
causes it a better thing
to happen. It's like it
evokes the sense of change
and chemical reaction in the
body. Yeah. That's, that's what
I like about it too.
It's more, it's more yeah.
Precise as you said. Yeah.
That's interesting. I like that.
So as we try to
promote these kinds of things,
how do we push back
on people that are like,
Oh yeah, that's just a
word. It's not, it's not
that big of a deal
who cares? Yeah, yeah, no,
I hear that a lot.
And it's the power of
language is, is surprising. I
mean, it's, it does sound
like, Oh, what does it
matter? What we call it?
But the thing is that
we have so many associations
in our head with different
words, you know? Like, and,
and so that can have
a huge impact on how
we actually think about things.
I mean, I think that
that's just, that's just undeniable.
I mean, cause if you
think about the word soft,
I mean, what comes to
mind? Like I think of
like pillows, I think of
Sears had these commercials in
the nineties, the softer side
of Sears. Like I think
of all these things that
just, you know, are nothing
that sound, you know, important
or like something that I
would need in the, whereas,
you know, I hear catalytic
and I think, you know,
science and chemical reactions like
you were talking about, I
think of, you know, making
things more efficient, faster, all
that stuff. And so it
sounds, you know what I
mean? So I think if
we look at the associations
we have in our head,
that's how we can see
the power of language. That's
a really good point. And
if, if someone were trying
to do a soft skills
workshop and sell it to
like GE or some giant
corporation, that might be challenging,
but if you put together
a catalytic skills workshop, you
know, there's a certain personality
type at a giant company
that might be like, yeah,
that's exactly what we need
here. Yeah, exactly. I'm doing
a workshop at node summit
coming up in the summer
and I called it working
with humans and that's really
cause that's what it's about
is like how to, how
to work well with humans
as a human. And so
that's kind of how I
described it there. That is
funny though, we are working
with computers that are supposed
to be deterministic and they
follow instructions really well. And
then of course the exact
opposite of that are people
which are don't follow instructions
particularly well and are hard
to understand sometimes, but it
is the, the, the, the
coming together of those two
things that we're we're software
happens. Right. Exactly. Yeah. And
I think for too long,
we've sort of been neglecting
the human side of things.
And I think you see
this in the fact that,
you know, most software projects
are not failing because of
technical reasons really they're, they're
failing for human reasons. It's,
you know, people not communicating
requirements, they're not prioritizing them
well or not designing for
the customer with the customers
in mind and things like
that. So I think this
gap, this, you know, empathy
gap and just emotional intelligence
gap in general, that's been
in tech for, you know,
forever has really been, we
can see the evidence of
it in, in what the
technology that's been produced. So
I think it's not just,
you know, Oh, let's just,
you know, be nice to
each other or whatever. It's
more like, no, let's be
more efficient and build better
products by building empathy for
each other. And the people
we're building for, That's a
really like actionable thing that
you just said, like, you're
not out promoting, come on
everyone. Let's be nice. Let's
all get along. Like, Hey,
listen, if we want this
to be a successful project,
you working effectively with the
human next to you or
the cube over from you
is as important as your
code compiling. Yeah, absolutely. And
you've said before that, when
people, when you tell people
that your company is compassionate
coding, they think that's like
an oxymoron. You can't have
one with the other. Yeah,
they definitely, they do, but
I've gotten that feedback. And,
and I've said that in
what I would like is
for people to think it's
redundant. Like I would like
it to be the norm
that, you know, people in
software are known to be
empathetic, that they have this
versatile ability to work both
on machines and with human
beings, you know? Cause I
think that's where the real
potential lies. That would be
amazing if we could make
it. So that, that tech
felt like people knew like,
Oh yeah, computer person, that's,
that's so great. Like this
person that, you know, they're,
they're a great person. They're
a kind person, they're a
computer person. Right. Wouldn't that
be fantastic. That'd be great.
But right now I just
feel like, ah, I don't
want to fix my dad's
computer. You know, I think
we're all just going to
burned out and we are
having enough trouble being compassionate
with ourselves and our family.
It's difficult sometimes to be
patient and kind at work.
Well, that's a really good
point too, which is that
the self compassion is just
as important. I mean, everything
really starts with self compassion.
I mean, I don't think
I could be doing the
work that I'm doing. If
I didn't take enough time
to take care of myself,
take care of my own
health, do the things that
make me happy outside of
work. And I think that's
actually, it's hard to be
empathetic to other people. It's
hard to be compassionate with
other people if you're, if
you're not taking care of
yourself in these ways. So
that's actually a really important
point. Yeah. We hear a
lot online about self care
and I really like communities
where we're telling each other
and helping each other say
like, Hey, listen, take, they
take the time. If you
need a, you know, a
break, you need a mental
health afternoon. You know, if
you're, if, if it's just
not working for you today,
if you can take the
time for yourself because you're
no good to us stressed
out. Definitely. Yeah. I think
that's really important. And I
would also say that, you
know, this idea of, of,
you know, with the, the
programmers being kind to people
it's not so far fetched,
because if you think about
it, we're problem solvers, right?
So we look for pain
points and we solve them.
And that's really what compassion
is about is about alleviating
suffering. Right? So reducing these
pain points. So to a
certain extent, technologists are kind
of like primed to do
this. I mean, we, although
you're right. Sometimes we're, we're
burnt out. Understandably. So I
really do think that, you
know, when you see things
to like open source, like,
and people who kindly contribute
on stack overflow, that's a
certain subset, hopefully a large
subset, but it is a
subset. Those people are generous,
right? That's generosity. They're not
getting paid for this and
you know, some of them
and at least it opensource.
And so, you know, I
think that that's important too,
is that we have these
seeds of compassion already in
tech. And that's why I
really have faith that we
can help those grow and
blossom into beautiful completion flowers.
Yeah, indeed. I like the
idea of direct of, of
directly tying compassion and empathy
and, and working well as
a team to, to code
quality that we're, you're not
just saying your customers, your
employees, your users will feel
better. Your, you know, your
employees might not quit or
whatever. You're literally saying the
code will be higher quality.
And the shipping product will
be better if, if everyone
is, is focused on empathy
and compassion. Yeah, absolutely. Because
really for me, I've looked
at compassion as an optimization
problem where you're trying to
minimize suffering. And so when
you're talking about, you know,
should we, should we test
the code? Like, should we,
you know, how, how should
we build this being compassionate
towards yourself and the people
you're working with and the
customer, right? All of these,
if you take those into
account, I mean, that's how
you're going to get the
best code, right? This might
be a bit of a
stretch of an analogy. But
I remember when I took
my very first driving course
when I was 16 and
they did this thing where
they were like, two people
are going to drive in
this simulator, one's going to
drive as aggressively and as
fast as possible. And see
if they get there first
and the one will simply
follow the rules and stop
and, you know, be a
good driver. And you drive
for like 15, 20 minutes.
And the person who drives
aggressively and cuts people off
ends up getting there about
90 seconds, early 90 seconds,
you know, out of 20
minutes. Now, certainly if they
were trying to get to
the hospital, maybe that's necessary,
but they were trying to
make the point that this
person burned a half dozen
bridges was extraordinarily unsafe, pissed
off half the road and
made it there with 15%
more speed. So applying that
to, to code reviews, to
an experience at work, minimal
effort of being kind, being
pleasant would, would cost you
little if nothing, if not
make, maybe make things better.
Yeah. Actually, I actually love
that analogy because really while
driving is one of the
best times to practice empathy
and compassion is, you know,
when you're stuck behind somebody
or somebody cuts you off
or whatever it is, instead
of just, you know, having
a knee jerk, really angry
reaction, but just taking a
minute, like just taking a
breath and thinking, you know,
I don't know what that
person's going through. You know,
what, what might be going
on in their life. That's
making them act this way.
And that's like a great
thing that all of us
who drive or commute in
any way really have the
option to do is just
to, to really, to think
about in practice, you know,
that, that concern for other
people, Hey folks, I want
to take a moment to
thank our sponsors and remind
you that when you support
them, you're supporting Hansel minutes
because they make this show
possible. Innovative developers help improve
the lives of millions, of
small businesses and accountants that
use QuickBooks worldwide. Your app
could make the difference that
helps them work smarter and
put more money in their
pocket, enter into it. Developer
from tech tools to growing
your customer base, to helping
you get funding. Intuit developer
helps your app go from
concept to company, find out
more at intuit.me/code that's I
N T U I t.me/code.
It makes me wonder when
did things get so, so
angry and so selfish? When
did the idea of compassion
or empathy become synonymous with
some kind of weakness? Yeah,
there's an interesting history there
and I don't know all
of it. There's a great
book called on kindness. And
it's about it kind of
charts the history over time,
because there was a time,
you know, especially cause there's,
you know, it ties into
religion in some ways. I
mean, not for me personally,
but there's definitely a history
there of when religion was
bigger in society, like certain
types of kindness were more
popular and then, you know,
this industrialization happened too. And
then it's like, you know,
than it is all about
efficiency. But the thing is
that kindness really is compatible
with efficiency, which is how
I think this new kind
of resurgence of kindness is
going to happen is that
it's when you speak with
emotional intelligence, when you're speaking
to somebody, they are more
likely to receive the feedback
or suggestions you're giving because
they're not, it's not going
to trigger their threat response.
So if you come at
somebody and you're like yelling
at them, or just even
just being direct with them,
overly direct, they're gonna, they're,
it's going to trigger their
threat response, their fight or
flight. And so they're not
really going to listen to
your message. Right? Right. And
as a manager of people,
a manager of developers, if
I can express an issue,
a concern, whatever, whether it
be a code review or
a managerial issue with someone
in a way that doesn't
trigger their, their, their threat
response or that they know
it is coming from a
place of helpfulness. Even if
I make a mistake or
say something incorrectly, they won't
necessarily flip the bid on
me and assume that I
had no malice of forethought.
Yeah, exactly. Now Jonathan salt
is someone that you have
tweeted about before, and he's
got a book out now
called a new reality human
evolution for a sustainable future.
And you pulled out a
quote, a pull quote out
of his book where you
said that salt believes that
we as a society are
kind of transitioning from a
time of competition and independence
with wind lose strategies to
a focus on cooperation and
interdependence. Sometimes it doesn't feel
like that. D D do
you believe that? I do
believe that. And like part
of what the book is
about is the fact that
we are in this transition
and that's why there's so
much conflict. There's, you know,
whenever you're going through a
transition there's conflict in the
new age world, people talk
about a healing crisis where
when you're, when you're healing,
like sometimes things get worse
before they get better. And
so I think sometimes it
seems like things are getting
worse now and, and everybody,
you know, but I think
really what's happening is we're
talking about these things and,
and we're, we're trying to
make, to make changes and
to make progress. And, and
it's inevitable that in that
time there's going to be
resistance. There's going to be
the people who want to
protect the status quo. Like
I encounter that all the
time and trying to push
for compassion and tech. It's
like the people who have
been getting by without being
compassionate in tech, like really
don't want to be compassionate
because it's, you know, it
does take effort and they're,
you know, doing fine. They
have, you know, cushy jobs
that they, you know, they're
allowed to be a jerk
to their, you know, if
the people on their team,
because, you know, they're the
programmer, you know, so there's
a lot of resistance there,
but at the same time,
the fact that we're even
talking about this, right. I
mean, that's progress. And so
I think we see that
on a global scale as
well, that, you know, we're
talking about, you know, when
you look at, to like
the resources, just everything that's,
you know, being depleted, like
we have to change how
we live, because what we're
doing is just not sustainable.
I think that we're
all kind of hoping for
the star Trek, the next
generation world that we're promised,
you know, food for all.
And, and we would all
just kind of be, you
know, everyone in star Trek,
no one has a, I
don't really think about how
John Luke Picard gets a
W2. Like, and he's not
really getting a paycheck. He
just like there's food at
the wall. And he does
art when he has spare
time. Really all they get
to worry about is their
time and their, their intellectual
pursuits. That would be the
ideal. Yeah, for sure. And
I mean, I think we
can get there, you know,
I mean, I think some
people will think, Oh, that's,
you know, unrealistic, utopia, whatever,
but I don't think so.
Cause I think, you know,
we can all make small
changes every day to work
towards this, you know, brighter
vision of the future. Just,
you know, we're more collaborative
and we're cooperative and just
really taking care of each
other more. And even if
you do it, even if,
like I said, even if,
just when you're in traffic,
if you think about it,
I mean, you're still helping
raise the global kindness level.
You know? So I think
whatever small steps we can
take are definitely worthwhile. I
want to dig a little
bit more into the idea
that you have is that
minimizing suffering, because compassionate is
a, is a word that
has certain connotations. And in,
in, in trying different words
out in my mouth and
in my brain to try
to get an understanding of
your perspective, the idea of
minimizing suffering a suffering is
like a really bad word.
Like that's bad. We definitely
don't want more of that.
You're saying compassion is the
key to minimizing suffering for
yourself, for your users, for
your team, for the Deb's
for everybody. Yeah, definitely. So
there's, you know, there's different
definitions of compassion, but there's
one that I read from
the greater good science center
at UC Berkeley. And they
had this idea that compassion
is kind of a more
active version of empathy. Cause
with empathy, you know, you
can feel what the other
person's feeling and there's different
types of empathy, but that's,
you know, what it essentially
boils down to, whereas compassion,
you not only can feel
how other people are feeling,
but you actively desire to
make them feel better, right?
So you want to reduce
their suffering. And so that's
why I choose compassion. When
I talk about this, as
often as I can, of
course, I also use empathy
because, you know, that's, that's
become the buzz word that
people understand a bit more,
but really I think the
next level is really compassion
because it's just more active
you and it's also potentially
more rational because you don't
necessarily even have to be
very emotional at the time
to, to make a compassionate
decision because you really can
look at it logically and
think, okay, given all the
parties involved, which step forward
will involve the least suffering.
Right. Or, or the most
pleasure. But let's be honest.
Like a lot of times
it's just about minimizing suffering.
So yeah. That's why I
prefer that kind of way
of looking at it. Yeah.
Yeah. Talk to me a
little bit more about that
empathy versus compassion. So empathy
is feeling what the other,
you know, the other people
are thinking, but compassion is
kind of on the way
true to altruism, but not
quite there. Yeah. Compassion is
more, it's just more active.
So it's like you, you
could, instead of you, you
can cause you could be
empathetic. You could feel what
someone's feeling. It just not
care. Right. So you can
feel what they're feeling and
just move on with your
life. Compassion is more, you
feel what they're feeling and
you're like, Oh, they're suffering.
I want to make them
feel better. So yeah, it
takes that active step. So
you actually commit to wanting
to do better. And that's
what makes compassion different. And
yet altruism is another they
and closely related of course.
And you know, it can
be differentiated in different ways,
but you know, there, I
think the difference is pretty
subtle in terms of altruism,
but they're, they're all, they're
all different, but related concepts
is how I look at
it. It's a really interesting
spectrum. I mean, like we
said, naming things is hard,
but once you get the,
once you get the taxonomy
down, it's pretty powerful. There's
a really cool infographic that
I'll put in the show
notes by Robert Shelton, who's a
psychologist, it talks about pity.
Hey, I acknowledge that you're
suffering sympathy. I care about
your suffering empathy. Like you
said, I feel your suffering
for myself and compassion. You
know, I want to believe
it let's work together to
relieve your suffering. It's a
spectrum as you, as you
head in one direction. Yeah,
for sure. And, and again,
it's like, you know, many
concepts where different different schools
of thought have, you know,
different lines that they draw
and whatnot. So I think
it's important just that whenever
people talk about it, so
yeah, just get on the
same page, you know, it's,
you know, there's this tendency
I think in tech, especially
for there to be like
a right or wrong answer,
like, you know, it's either
this way or that way.
And I think in general,
even when it comes to
like technical terms, it's more
just how you define it
and how we agree that
we're going to define it
and move forward in the
conversation versus like, this is
the absolute right definition. You
know what I mean? Hmm.
That's a really good point.
So ultimately it just matters
if my, my team and
we all agree on, on
how we're going to treat
each other and the right
thing that we're going to
do and what compassion or
empathy means to us. It
doesn't matter that the universe
agree on the exact definitions.
Exactly. And is that the
kind of thing that one
would learn in a work
in a work group or
a workshop rather, or if
we watched some of your
videos online on the topic?
Yeah. That's, that's one of
the things they have. So
really the workshops, they break
down emotional intelligence in terms
of the self and then
social interactions. And then I
always talk about continuous improvement.
So it was always have
an action plan at the
end to kind of how
you're going to keep improving.
And so self awareness and
self management is really about
being aware of your own
emotions and deciding, you know,
how to, how to manage
them, how to understand what
your emotions really mean. And
then the social interaction component
we talk about, you know,
how to communicate with empathy,
how to imagine what other
people are thinking and feeling
and, and asking them and
discussing it directly, caring about
that and then effective communication
styles, things like that. And
then continuous improvement is really
where I take the idea
of the agile retrospective from
agile software development. And I
apply it at a personal
level and it's something that's
really helped me a lot
to make improvement in my
own life using this personal
retrospective. And so I always
share that in the workshops
too, because you know, this
is an ongoing process. It's
not just like you do
a workshop or you read
a book and then, okay,
I'm emotionally intelligent. Now it's
more like it's a continuous
process. Yeah. Somehow I was
hoping I would go through
this process and I'd be
able to put this on
my LinkedIn. I'd be like,
yeah, exactly. April says you're
compassionate. So it's okay now.
Yeah, exactly. It really is
a process. You never, you're
never all the way there
and you're certainly gonna fall
backwards. You're going to say
the wrong thing in a
meeting, you're going to insult
someone accidentally or upset someone.
And then you just say,
Hey, I, I hear you.
I hear what you said.
Yeah. And that's where self-compassion
comes in handy because, you
know, for sure, like the
other day, like I tweeted
something sarcastic and I realized
that that's not really how
I want to be in
the world and it's not
consistent with my values, but
instead of beating myself up
like, Oh my gosh, I'm
a horrible person again. I
thought, well, you know, I
was feeling this and that,
whatever it doesn't excuse what
I did, but it's more
like, I understand why I
did that. And so, you
know, I have compassion for
myself and I'm going to
do better in the future.
And that's, that's really all
it takes. There was another
interesting thing I want to
kind of end on, on,
on Twitter, which isn't really
a compassionate place, but I
see you a lot there
and I'm there a lot.
So somehow we are trying
to find the balance between
being empathetic and compassionate people
and going to kind of
the least compassionate place online.
But there was a discussion
around an individuals hosted what
they thought was an innocuous
tweet saying, Hey, you know,
if you switch jobs every
year, we're probably not the
right fit for you. And
they didn't think that that
was particularly controversial and Twitter
disagreed indicating that not everybody
has the privilege to stick
around at a crappy poisonous
job for, for a, for
a year. And you were
kind of involved in that.
And I noticed that at
the end of it, the
individual wrote a whole post
about it. That was very
empathetic. How, how did, were
you involved at all directly
to get someone to go
through? Like the, I believe
something know, I really, really
believe it. I'm going to
double down unbelieving this to
the well you changed my
perspective. Yeah, no, I, I
definitely can't take credit for
that because I think that
that individual got a lot
of tweets about that, about
his tweet. But I was
really touched by the fact
that he took a step
back cause people were, people
were kind of jumping on
him too for not replying
right away. And I was
thinking, and I actually did
tweet this. And I included
him in that, which is
that I hope he's just
taking a step back and
thinking about this because you
know, I think that there's
this idea that, Oh, you
have to respond immediately. But
the problem is when people
respond immediately, it's usually coming
from that, you know, MIG
Dilla and the brains coming
from that fight or flight
defense that really defensive kind
of viewpoint. And so you're
going to be, you're going
to defend yourself. You're gonna
attack other people just because
you know, that part of
that lizard brain that's still
with us is, you know,
it's going to come out
and that's like, what most
of Twitter is. Right. So
I actually thought it was
great that he took a
step back. He got a
lot of different perspectives to
gather a lot of perspectives.
And then, yeah, like, like
you said, his, his blog
post was really empathetic, really
thoughtful. And I think that
that's the value of these
like, you know, longer form
posts. I mean, you know,
I do tweet a lot,
you know, I know you
tweet a lot too. And
I try to be thoughtful
in my tweets, but you
know, people can misconstrue them
and then it leads to
misunderstandings and all that sort
of stuff. And blog posts
are a little bit safer
in that regards. Cause you
can explore things in more
depth, but yeah. I mean,
I still, I don't know,
Twitter is an interesting place.
Sometimes empathy happens there sometimes
not. Yeah. I think it's
Twitter is actually a lot
like work. Sometimes I find
joy and it feeds my
spirit and I love going
to Twitter and other days
and just like, I really
can't do this today. That
sounds about right. So are
there particular video that you
would recommend that someone would
explore if they were going
to go and take a
look at your site and
like what's your, what's the
best introduction to compassionate coding?
Yeah. So on compassionate coding.com.
I have a site like
a media page and I
think the one that gives
the best kind of overview
is emotional intelligence for engineers.
The talk that I gave
it in G Atlanta and
yeah. So I think that,
that, one's probably the best
one to start with. Okay.
Very cool. Yeah. We were
actually at the same at
the same conference at the
same time I was at
NJ Atlanta as well. Yes,
I believe that's true. Yeah.
And that was a great
talk that you gave and
then the video online is
really great. It's about 20
minutes long, so it's not
going to be like, you
know, 90 minutes of your
time and it's definitely worth
taking the, taking the moment.
It's interesting. Of course that
it's on YouTube. Hopefully the
comments will become the compliment.
Yeah. There were some interesting
comments there, but I think
they, I don't know if
they have, I don't, I
don't have control over the
comments there, but I think
the, the organizers there have
been pretty good about at
least hiding the, the word
I've always felt like the
thing that's wrong, that YouTube
is the down arrow, like
who needs to down arrow
or something. And he just
needs to have an up
arrow or no arrow. Like,
you know, like I don't
want to thumbs down anything.
I would just be nice
or say nothing, you know?
Yeah. Thankfully it hasn't, it's
what's funny is it hasn't
gotten too many downers, but
somebody posted on fortune of
all places and that attracted
some interesting comments. So if
you look at the hidden
comments you'll eat, I don't
recommend looking at hidden comments.
How about that to everybody?
I'm going to go ahead
and not do that because
I decided to become a
compassionate coder. Yeah. There you
go. Perfect. Thanks so much
for chatting with me today.
Yeah. Thanks for having me.
This is super fun. This
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again next week.